README.md, before:

# Stable Diffusion-NCNN

Stable-Diffusion implemented by [ncnn](https://github.com/Tencent/ncnn) framework based on C++ 

Zhihu: https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/582552276

Video: https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV15g411x7Hc

***Performance (time pre-it and ram)***
| per-it | i7-12700 (512x512)  | i7-12700 (256x256) | Snapdragon865 (256x256) |
| ------ | ------------------- | ------------------ | ----------------------- |
| slow   | 6.0s/4.63G(6.47G)   | 1.5s/3.60G(3.95G)  | 1.6s/2.2G(2.6G)         |
| fast   | 3.5s/10.39G(12.23G) | 0.8s/5.94G(6.37G)  |                         |

## News

2023-01-12: update to the latest ncnn code and use optimize model & update android & add memory monitor

2023-01-05: add 256x256 model to x86 project

2023-01-04: merge and finish the mha op in x86, enable fast gelu

## Demo

![image](./resources/image.png)

<p align="center">
  <img src="./resources/android.jpg" width="320x">
</p>

## Out of box

All models and exe file you can download from [百度网盘](https://pan.baidu.com/s/1Q_p0N3v7Y526Ht3JbxJ1XQ?pwd=6666) or [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1myB4uIQ2K5okl51XDbmYhetLF9rUyLZS?usp=sharing)

### x86 exe
1. enter folder [exe](./x86/exe)
2. download three bin file: ```AutoencoderKL-fp16.bin, FrozenCLIPEmbedder-fp16.bin, UNetModel-MHA-fp16.bin``` and put them to ```assets``` folder
3. set up your config in ```magic.txt```, each line are:
    1. resolution (only support 256 and 512)
    2. speed mode (0 for slow but low ram, 1 for fast but high ram)
    3. step number (15 is noe bad)
    4. seed number (set 0 to be random)
    5. positive prompt
    6. negative prompt
4. run ```stable-diffusion.exe```

### android apk
1. download an install the apk from the link
2. in the top, the first one is step and the second one is seed
3. int the bottom, the top one the positive prompt and the bottom one negative prompt (set empty to enable the default prompt)
4. note: the apk needs 7G ram, and run very slow and power consumption

## Implementation Details

Note: Please comply with the requirements of the SD model and do not use it for illegal purposes

1. Three main steps of Stable-Diffusion：
    1. CLIP: text-embedding
    2. iterative sampling with sampler
    3. decode the sampler results to obtain output images
2. Model details：
    1. Weights：Naifu (u know where to find)
    2. Sampler：Euler ancestral (k-diffusion version)
    3. Resolution：512x512 or 256x256
    4. Denoiser：CFGDenoiser, CompVisDenoiser
    4. Prompt：positive & negative, both supported :)

## Code Details

### Complie for x86
1. download three bin file: ```AutoencoderKL-fp16.bin, FrozenCLIPEmbedder-fp16.bin, UNetModel-MHA-fp16.bin``` and put them to ```assets``` folder
2. open the vs2019 project and compile the release&x64

### Compile for android
1. download three bin file: ```AutoencoderKL-fp16.bin, FrozenCLIPEmbedder-fp16.bin, UNetModel-MHA-fp16.bin``` and put them to ```assets``` folder
2. open android studio and run the project

### ONNX Model

I've uploaded the three onnx models used by Stable-Diffusion, so that you can do some interesting work.

You can find them from the link above.

#### Statements

1. Please abide by the agreement of the stable diffusion model consciously, and DO NOT use it for illegal purposes!
2. If you use these onnx models to make open source projects, please inform me and I'll follow and look forward for your next great work :)

#### Instructions

1. FrozenCLIPEmbedder

```C++
ncnn (input & output): token, multiplier, cond, conds
onnx (input & output): onnx::Reshape_0, 2271

z = onnx(onnx::Reshape_0=token)
origin_mean = z.mean()
z *= multiplier
new_mean = z.mean()
z *= origin_mean / new_mean
conds = torch.concat([cond,z], dim=-2)
```

2. UNetModel

```C++
ncnn (input & output): in0, in1, in2, c_in, c_out, outout
onnx (input & output): x, t, cc, out

outout = in0 + onnx(x=in0 * c_in, t=in1, cc=in2) * c_out
```

## References

1. [ncnn](https://github.com/Tencent/ncnn)
2. [opencv-mobile](https://github.com/nihui/opencv-mobile)
3. [stable-diffusion](https://github.com/CompVis/stable-diffusion)
4. [k-diffusion](https://github.com/crowsonkb/k-diffusion)
5. [stable-diffusion-webui](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui)

Commit message:

update:speed up & less ram for x86

README.md, after:

# Stable Diffusion-NCNN

Stable-Diffusion implemented by [ncnn](https://github.com/Tencent/ncnn) framework based on C++ 

Zhihu: https://zhuanlan.zhihu.com/p/582552276

Video: https://www.bilibili.com/video/BV15g411x7Hc

***Performance (time pre-it and ram)***
| per-it | i7-12700 (512x512)  | i7-12700 (256x256) | Snapdragon865 (256x256) |
| ------ | ------------------- | ------------------ | ----------------------- |
| slow   | 4.85s/5.24G(7.07G)  | 1.05s/3.58G(4.02G) | 1.6s/2.2G(2.6G)         |
| fast   | 2.85s/9.47G(11.29G) | 0.65s/5.76G(6.20G) |                         |

## News

2023-01-19: speed up & less ram in x86

2023-01-12: update to the latest ncnn code and use optimize model, update android, add memory monitor

2023-01-05: add 256x256 model to x86 project

2023-01-04: merge and finish the mha op in x86, enable fast gelu

## Demo

![image](./resources/image.png)

<p align="center">
  <img src="./resources/android.jpg" width="320x">
</p>

## Out of box

All models and exe file you can download from [百度网盘](https://pan.baidu.com/s/1Q_p0N3v7Y526Ht3JbxJ1XQ?pwd=6666) or [Google Drive](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1myB4uIQ2K5okl51XDbmYhetLF9rUyLZS?usp=sharing)

### x86 exe
1. enter folder [exe](./x86/exe)
2. download three bin file: ```AutoencoderKL-fp16.bin, FrozenCLIPEmbedder-fp16.bin, UNetModel-MHA-fp16.bin``` and put them to ```assets``` folder
3. set up your config in ```magic.txt```, each line are:
    1. resolution (only support 256 and 512)
    2. speed mode (0 for slow but low ram, 1 for fast but high ram)
    3. step number (15 is noe bad)
    4. seed number (set 0 to be random)
    5. positive prompt
    6. negative prompt
4. run ```stable-diffusion.exe```

### android apk
1. download an install the apk from the link
2. in the top, the first one is step and the second one is seed
3. int the bottom, the top one the positive prompt and the bottom one negative prompt (set empty to enable the default prompt)
4. note: the apk needs 7G ram, and run very slow and power consumption

## Implementation Details

Note: Please comply with the requirements of the SD model and do not use it for illegal purposes

1. Three main steps of Stable-Diffusion：
    1. CLIP: text-embedding
    2. iterative sampling with sampler
    3. decode the sampler results to obtain output images
2. Model details：
    1. Weights：Naifu (u know where to find)
    2. Sampler：Euler ancestral (k-diffusion version)
    3. Resolution：512x512 or 256x256
    4. Denoiser：CFGDenoiser, CompVisDenoiser
    4. Prompt：positive & negative, both supported :)

## Code Details

### Complie for x86
1. download three bin file: ```AutoencoderKL-fp16.bin, FrozenCLIPEmbedder-fp16.bin, UNetModel-MHA-fp16.bin``` and put them to ```assets``` folder
2. open the vs2019 project and compile the release&x64

### Compile for android
1. download three bin file: ```AutoencoderKL-fp16.bin, FrozenCLIPEmbedder-fp16.bin, UNetModel-MHA-fp16.bin``` and put them to ```assets``` folder
2. open android studio and run the project

### ONNX Model

I've uploaded the three onnx models used by Stable-Diffusion, so that you can do some interesting work.

You can find them from the link above.

#### Statements

1. Please abide by the agreement of the stable diffusion model consciously, and DO NOT use it for illegal purposes!
2. If you use these onnx models to make open source projects, please inform me and I'll follow and look forward for your next great work :)

#### Instructions

1. FrozenCLIPEmbedder

```C++
ncnn (input & output): token, multiplier, cond, conds
onnx (input & output): onnx::Reshape_0, 2271

z = onnx(onnx::Reshape_0=token)
origin_mean = z.mean()
z *= multiplier
new_mean = z.mean()
z *= origin_mean / new_mean
conds = torch.concat([cond,z], dim=-2)
```

2. UNetModel

```C++
ncnn (input & output): in0, in1, in2, c_in, c_out, outout
onnx (input & output): x, t, cc, out

outout = in0 + onnx(x=in0 * c_in, t=in1, cc=in2) * c_out
```

## References

1. [ncnn](https://github.com/Tencent/ncnn)
2. [opencv-mobile](https://github.com/nihui/opencv-mobile)
3. [stable-diffusion](https://github.com/CompVis/stable-diffusion)
4. [k-diffusion](https://github.com/crowsonkb/k-diffusion)
5. [stable-diffusion-webui](https://github.com/AUTOMATIC1111/stable-diffusion-webui)
